INSERT INTO book(title, genre, year, author, publisher, plot, cover) VALUES
('The Shining', 'Thriller', '1977', 'Stephen King', 'Doubleday', 'The Shining follows Jack Torrance, an aspiring writer who takes a job as the winter caretaker of the Overlook Hotel, isolated in the Colorado Rockies. His wife, Wendy, and psychic son, Danny, accompany him. As the winter sets in, the hotel's dark past begins to unravel, triggering Jack's descent into madness, influenced by the malevolent spirits that haunt the hotel. Danny's psychic abilities, known as the shining," allow him to perceive the hotel's horrors. As Jack becomes increasingly unhinged, the family's fight for survival intensifies, culminating in a terrifying showdown against the hotel's supernatural forces.'),
('The Silent Patient', 'Thriller', '2019', 'Alex Michaelides', 'Orion', '
The Silent Patient by Alex Michaelides centers on Alicia Berenson, a renowned artist who murders her husband Gabriel in their home and then falls into silence, refusing to speak. Theo Faber, a psychotherapist, becomes fascinated with Alicia's case and takes on her therapy at the Grove, hoping to unravel the mystery behind her silence. Through his sessions with Alicia, Theo uncovers shocking truths about her past, her marriage, and the events leading up to Gabriel's murder. As Theo delves deeper, he discovers dark secrets that ultimately lead to a jaw-dropping twist that challenges everything he thought he knew.'), 
('If he had been with me', 'Romance', '2013', 'Laura Nowlin', 'Sourcebooks Fire', 'If He Had Been with Me by Laura Nowlin revolves around Autumn and Finny, childhood friends whose lives take different paths. Autumn navigates high school with loneliness and loss, while Finny is popular but troubled. Their paths cross again, reigniting their friendship and stirring long-hidden feelings. As they grow closer, Autumn discovers Finny's struggles and secrets, including his troubled family life and battle with addiction. Their bond deepens as they confront their pasts and insecurities together, but a tragic event threatens to tear them apart. Through heartache and healing, Autumn learns valuable lessons about love, friendship, and the power of forgiveness.'),
('Catch & Kill', 'true crime', '2019', 'Ronan Farrow', '‎Little, Brown and Company', 'Catch and Kill by Ronan Farrow is an investigative memoir detailing his pursuit of stories related to sexual misconduct allegations against powerful figures, notably Harvey Weinstein. Farrow recounts his experiences as a journalist facing intimidation, threats, and attempts to suppress his reporting by Weinstein and his associates. The book exposes the systemic issues of abuse of power and cover-ups within the entertainment industry and beyond. Farrow's relentless pursuit of truth sheds light on the complicity of media organizations and the legal system. Through firsthand accounts and meticulous research, Catch and Kill unveils the dark underbelly of power and influence in society.'), 
('I'll Be Gone in the Dark', 'True Crime', '2018', 'Michelle McNamara', 'HarperCollins', 'I'll Be Gone in the Dark by Michelle McNamara chronicles her obsessive quest to unmask the Golden State Killer, a notorious serial rapist and murderer who terrorized California in the 1970s and 1980s. McNamara delves into the case's history, meticulously piecing together clues and conducting extensive research. Her narrative intertwines personal anecdotes, investigative journalism, and the chilling details of the killer's crimes. Tragically, McNamara passes away before the killer's capture, but her work contributes to his eventual arrest in 2018. The book is a gripping exploration of obsession, justice, and the impact of unsolved crimes on victims and their communities.'), 
('Milk and Honey', 'Poetry', '2014', 'Rupi Kaur', 'Andrews McMeel Publishing', 'Milk and Honey by Rupi Kaur is a collection of poetry divided into four sections: the hurting," the loving, the breaking,and the healing.Each section explores different aspects of the human experience, particularly focusing on themes of love, loss, trauma, healing, and empowerment. The poems are raw, intimate, and often confrontational, addressing topics such as abuse, femininity, self-discovery, and resilience. Through concise and evocative language, Kaur's poetry invites readers to reflect on their own emotions and experiences while offering solace and empowerment in the face of adversity. Overall, Milk and Honey is a poignant exploration of life's complexities and the journey toward self-acceptance and healing.'), 
('1984', 'Science Fiction', '1949', 'George Orwell', 'Secker & Warburg', 'In George Orwell's 1984, set in a dystopian future, Winston Smith rebels against the oppressive regime of the Party led by Big Brother. Winston works for the Ministry of Truth, altering historical records to align with the Party's propaganda. He secretly resents the Party's surveillance, censorship, and manipulation of truth. Through a forbidden affair with Julia, he finds a semblance of freedom and hope. However, their rebellion is swiftly crushed by the Thought Police. Winston undergoes torture and brainwashing, ultimately betraying Julia. He succumbs to the Party's control, realizing the futility of resistance and the omnipotence of totalitarianism.'), 
('Little Women', 'coming-of-age novel', '1868', 'Louisa May Alcott', 'Roberts Brothers', 'Little Women by Louisa May Alcott follows the March sisters—Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy—during the Civil War era in Concord, Massachusetts. The novel explores their coming-of-age journeys, their joys, struggles, and aspirations. Meg longs for romance, Jo dreams of becoming a writer, Beth is gentle and compassionate, and Amy is artistic and ambitious. They navigate love, friendship, and loss while confronting societal expectations for women. Through their trials and triumphs, they learn the importance of family, sisterhood, and following their hearts. Little Women is a timeless tale of love, resilience, and the bonds that unite us.'
('Sapiens', 'Nonfiction', '2011', 'Yuval Noah Harari', 'Dvir Publishing House', 'Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind by Yuval Noah Harari provides an engaging exploration of human history, from the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa to the present day. Harari examines key revolutions—cognitive, agricultural, and scientific—that shaped human society. He delves into topics such as the development of language, the rise of agriculture, the formation of complex societies, and the impact of technology. Harari also discusses the spread of cultures, religions, and ideologies, and reflects on the future of humankind. Through a thought-provoking narrative, Sapiens offers insights into the forces that have shaped our species and continue to influence our world.'), 
('Dracula', 'Horror', '1897', 'Bram Stoker', 'Archibald Constable and Company', '
Dracula by Bram Stoker is a gothic horror novel that chronicles the sinister actions of Count Dracula, a centuries-old vampire from Transylvania, as he seeks to spread his undead curse to England. The story unfolds through a series of journals, letters, and newspaper clippings, as Dracula preys upon the innocent Lucy Westenra and attempts to seduce Mina Murray. Professor Abraham Van Helsing leads a group of allies in a desperate battle against the vampire, culminating in a thrilling confrontation at Dracula's castle. Stoker's masterpiece explores themes of sexuality, fear of the unknown, and the eternal struggle between good and evil.'
('Dune', 'Science Fiction','1965', 'Frank Herbert', 'Chilton Books', 'Dune by Frank Herbert is an epic science fiction novel set in a distant future where noble houses, religious orders, and an imperial dynasty vie for control of the desert planet Arrakis, the only source of the valuable spice melange. The story follows Paul Atreides, heir to House Atreides, as he navigates political intrigue, betrayal, and the prophetic destiny foretold by the Bene Gesserit sisterhood. Through alliances and conflicts with rival factions, Paul undergoes a transformative journey to become the messianic figure known as Muad'Dib. Dune explores themes of power, ecology, religion, and the human capacity for adaptation and change.'
('The Catcher in the Rye', 'coming-of-age novel', '1951', 'J.D. Salinger', 'Little, Brown and Company', '
The Catcher in the Rye by J.D. Salinger follows the story of Holden Caulfield, a disillusioned and alienated teenager expelled from prep school. After leaving school early, Holden spends a few days wandering around New York City, struggling with the phoniness and hypocrisy he perceives in society. He grapples with themes of identity, innocence, and the transition to adulthood, often feeling disconnected from those around him. Throughout his journey, Holden reflects on his relationships, memories, and desires, ultimately longing for genuine human connection and seeking to protect the innocence of children from the harsh realities of the adult world.'), 
('The Hungergames', 'Young Adult', '2008', 'Suzanne Collins', 'Scholastic', '
The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins is set in a dystopian future where the Capitol rules over 12 oppressed districts. To assert dominance, the Capitol holds an annual event called the Hunger Games, where one boy and one girl from each district are chosen to fight to the death in a televised spectacle. Katniss Everdeen volunteers to take her sister's place, alongside Peeta Mellark. As they navigate the brutal arena, Katniss becomes a symbol of rebellion against the Capitol. The novel explores themes of survival, sacrifice, and the effects of power, as Katniss fights not only for her life but for freedom.'), 
('A Good Girl's Guide To Murder', 'Young Adult', '2019', 'Holly Jackson', 'Electric Monkey', 'A Good Girl's Guide to Murder by Holly Jackson follows high school senior Pippa Fitz-Amobi, who reopens a five-year-old murder case for her senior project. Despite the alleged killer being dead, Pippa suspects there's more to the story. As she delves deeper, uncovering secrets and questioning alibis, Pippa risks her safety and reputation. With the help of her friend Ravi, she navigates the complexities of small-town politics and uncovers shocking truths about the case and those involved. The novel is a gripping thriller that explores themes of justice, truth, and the lengths one will go to for the pursuit of both.'), 
('They Both Die at the End', 'Young Adult', '2017', 'Adam Silvera', 'HarperTeen', '"They Both Die at the End by Adam Silvera is set in a world where people receive a call on the day they are going to die. The story follows Mateo and Rufus, two teenage boys who receive this call and decide to spend their final day together. As they embark on a journey to live their lives to the fullest, they form a deep bond and confront their fears and regrets. Throughout the day, they experience moments of joy, love, and friendship, but also face challenges and obstacles. Ultimately, as the title suggests, both Mateo and Rufus meet their fates by the end of the novel.'), 
('The Guest List', 'Thriller', '2020', 'Lucy Foley', 'Harper Collins', '
The Guest List by Lucy Foley is a thrilling mystery set on a remote island off the coast of Ireland. The story unfolds during the wedding of Jules and Will, a glamorous couple with a seemingly perfect life. As guests gather for the celebration, tensions simmer and secrets lurk beneath the surface. When a storm hits and communication with the mainland is cut off, the guests find themselves trapped with a killer among them. Through multiple perspectives and alternating timelines, the novel delves into the tangled relationships and dark pasts of the characters, building suspense until the shocking truth about the murder is revealed.'), 
('The Nightingale', 'Historical Fiction', '2015', 'Kristin Hannah', 'St. Martin's Press', 'The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah is a historical fiction novel set in France during World War II. The story follows two sisters, Vianne and Isabelle, who are separated by their differing views and experiences during the war. Vianne remains in their small village, struggling to protect her family and survive under Nazi occupation, while Isabelle joins the French Resistance, risking her life to fight against the Germans. As the war rages on, the sisters face unimaginable challenges, loss, and sacrifice. Through their bravery and resilience, they find strength in the face of adversity and learn the true meaning of love, courage, and survival.'),
('snowblind', 'Thriller', '2010', 'Ragnar Jónasson', 'Orenda Books', 'Snowblind is a chilling Nordic noir novel set in the isolated town of Siglufjörður, Iceland. When a young woman is found lying half-naked and bleeding in the snow, rookie policeman Ari Thór is drawn into the investigation. As he delves deeper, he uncovers secrets and dark deeds lurking beneath the tranquil surface of the town. With a sense of impending danger closing in as a deadly snowstorm approaches, Ari must race against time to unravel the mystery before it's too late. The novel is atmospheric, suspenseful, and full of twists and turns that keep readers on the edge of their seats.'),
('1776', 'History', '2005', 'David McCullough', 'Simon & Schuster, Inc', '
1776 by David McCullough is a historical narrative that delves into the events of the pivotal year during the American Revolution. McCullough focuses on the struggles and triumphs of the American Continental Army under the leadership of General George Washington. The book vividly portrays the challenges faced by the American forces as they fought against the British Empire for independence. From the Declaration of Independence to the Battle of Trenton and the crossing of the Delaware River, McCullough provides a gripping account of the sacrifices, courage, and determination of the individuals who shaped the course of American history during this crucial year.'),
('Pride and Prejudice', 'Romance', 1813, 'Jane Austen', 'T. Egerton, Whitehall', '"Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen is a classic romantic novel set in early 19th-century England. The story revolves around the Bennet family, particularly the second eldest daughter, Elizabeth Bennet, and her tumultuous relationship with the wealthy and aloof Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy. As Elizabeth navigates the social intricacies of Regency-era society, she encounters various suitors, including the charming Mr. Bingley and the comically inept Mr. Collins. Despite initial misunderstandings and prejudices, Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy gradually come to understand and appreciate each other's true character, leading to a deeply satisfying and enduring romance. Pride and Prejudice is celebrated for its wit, social commentary, and timeless portrayal of love overcoming societal expectations.'),
 ('The Notebook', 'Romance', 1996, 'Nicholas Sparks', 'Warner Books', '"The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks is a poignant romance novel that tells the story of Noah Calhoun and Allie Nelson, two young lovers who are separated by circumstances and social class. Set in the 1940s in North Carolina, the novel follows Noah and Allie's passionate summer romance, which is cut short when Allie's parents intervene and force her to leave. Despite their separation and Allie's engagement to another man, Noah and Allie never forget each other. Years later, they are reunited under unexpected circumstances, reigniting their love and confronting the challenges that kept them apart. The Notebook is a timeless tale of love, sacrifice, and second chances.'),
('Outlander', 'Romance', 1991, 'Diana Gabaldon', 'Delacorte Press', '
Outlander by Diana Gabaldon is a captivating blend of historical fiction, romance, and time travel. The story follows Claire Randall, a World War II nurse who mysteriously travels back in time from 1945 to 1743 Scotland. Stranded in the past, Claire finds herself caught in the midst of the Jacobite uprisings and is forced to navigate the dangerous politics and intrigue of the Scottish Highlands. Along the way, she encounters Jamie Fraser, a gallant Scottish warrior, and the two embark on a passionate and tumultuous romance that transcends time. Outlander is a sweeping saga filled with adventure, romance, and intrigue that captivates readers with its richly detailed setting and compelling characters.'),
('Me Before You', 'Romance', 2012, 'Jojo Moyes', 'Penguin Books', '
Me Before You by Jojo Moyes is a heartfelt romance novel that follows the unlikely relationship between Louisa Clark, a quirky and cheerful young woman, and Will Traynor, a wealthy and adventurous quadriplegic. Hired as Will's caregiver, Louisa initially struggles to connect with him due to his cynical demeanor. However, as they spend more time together, they form a deep bond and discover newfound joy and purpose in each other's company. Despite their growing affection, their differing outlooks on life and future aspirations create conflict and heartache. Me Before You is a poignant exploration of love, loss, and the complexities of human relationships.'),
('Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone', 'Fantasy', 1997, 'J.K. Rowling', 'Scholastic', 'Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone by J.K. Rowling introduces readers to the magical world of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The story follows a young boy named Harry Potter, who discovers on his eleventh birthday that he is a wizard and has been accepted to Hogwarts. As Harry navigates his first year at school, he learns about his past, makes new friends like Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, and uncovers secrets about his parents' mysterious deaths. Along the way, Harry discovers that he is famous in the wizarding world for surviving an attack by the dark wizard Voldemort as a baby. As Harry begins to unravel the mysteries surrounding his past, he learns that he may be destined for a greater purpose in the wizarding world.'),
('The Hobbit', 'Fantasy', 1937, 'J.R.R. Tolkien', 'Allen & Unwin', '
The Hobbit by J.R.R. Tolkien is a classic fantasy novel that follows the journey of Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit who is swept into an epic adventure. Gandalf the wizard recruits Bilbo and a company of dwarves led by Thorin Oakenshield to reclaim their homeland from the dragon Smaug. Along the way, they encounter trolls, goblins, elves, and other fantastical creatures. Bilbo discovers courage and resourcefulness within himself as he faces challenges and overcomes obstacles on the quest. The story is filled with themes of heroism, friendship, and the power of perseverance, making it a beloved tale cherished by readers of all ages.'),
('A Game of Thrones', 'Fantasy', 1996, 'George R.R. Martin', 'Bantam Books', '
A Game of Thrones by George R.R. Martin is the first book in the epic fantasy series, A Song of Ice and Fire." Set in the fictional continents of Westeros and Essos, the story revolves around the power struggles among noble families vying for control of the Iron Throne. The narrative unfolds through the perspectives of various characters, including members of the Stark, Lannister, and Targaryen families, as well as other political players and outsiders. Themes of honor, betrayal, loyalty, and ambition are interwoven with complex characters, intricate plots, and shocking twists, creating a rich and immersive world where no one is safe and the game of thrones is deadly.'),
('Mistborn: The Final Empire', 'Fantasy', 2006, 'Brandon Sanderson', 'Tor Books', '
Mistborn: The Final Empire by Brandon Sanderson is a captivating fantasy novel set in a world where a tyrant known as the Lord Ruler has ruled for a thousand years. The story follows a young street thief named Vin, who discovers she possesses Allomantic powers, allowing her to ingest and burn metals for magical abilities. Vin becomes embroiled in a rebellion led by the charismatic Kelsier, a Mistborn with the power to wield all Allomantic metals. Together, they plan to overthrow the Lord Ruler's oppressive regime by exploiting Vin's unique abilities and rallying the oppressed skaa population. Amidst political intrigue and epic battles, Vin learns about trust, friendship, and the true nature of power in a world where darkness looms at every turn.'),
('The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People', 'Self-Help', 1989, 'Stephen R. Covey', 'Free Press', '"The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen R. Covey is a seminal self-help book that outlines a holistic approach to personal and professional effectiveness. Covey introduces seven principles, or habits," that empower individuals to take control of their lives and achieve their goals. These habits include being proactive, beginning with the end in mind, putting first things first, thinking win-win, seeking first to understand, then to be understood, synergizing, and sharpening the saw. Covey emphasizes the importance of aligning actions with core values, fostering positive relationships, and continuously investing in self-improvement. Through insightful anecdotes and practical exercises, Covey offers a framework for living a purposeful, balanced, and fulfilling life.'),
('How to Win Friends and Influence People', 'Self-Help', 1936, 'Dale Carnegie', 'Simon & Schuster', 'How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie is a timeless guide to improving interpersonal relationships and communication skills. Carnegie offers practical advice on how to navigate social interactions, build rapport, and influence others positively. He emphasizes the importance of genuine interest in people, active listening, and empathy. Through anecdotes and examples, Carnegie illustrates the effectiveness of techniques such as remembering names, giving sincere compliments, and avoiding criticism. The book promotes a mindset of kindness, respect, and understanding in interactions with others, aiming to foster trust, cooperation, and mutual respect. How to Win Friends and Influence People remains a classic resource for personal and professional development.'),
('The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment', 'Self-Help', 1997, 'Eckhart Tolle', 'New World Library', 'The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle is a spiritual guide to living in the present moment. Tolle explores the concept of mindfulness and awareness, emphasizing the transformative power of being fully present and conscious in the here and now. He discusses the detrimental effects of dwelling on past regrets or worrying about the future and offers practical techniques to quiet the mind and connect with inner peace. Through insightful teachings and meditative practices, Tolle encourages readers to release attachments to ego-driven desires and embrace a state of presence and acceptance. The Power of Now serves as a profound reminder to cultivate inner stillness and find liberation from mental suffering.'),
('Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones', 'Self-Help', 2018, 'James Clear', 'Penguin Random House','"Atomic Habits by James Clear is a transformative guide to building good habits and breaking bad ones. Clear emphasizes the power of small, incremental changes, or atomic habits," to create lasting positive change in daily routines and lifestyles. Through practical strategies backed by scientific research, he demonstrates how to identify and modify the cues, cravings, and rewards that drive behavior. By focusing on habit formation systems rather than end goals, Clear helps readers cultivate self-discipline, consistency, and resilience. With actionable advice and insightful anecdotes, Atomic Habits offers a roadmap for personal growth and empowers individuals to unlock their potential and achieve their desired outcomes.'),
('The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life','Self-Help', 2016, 'Mark Manson', 'HarperOne', '"The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck by Mark Manson is a self-help book that challenges conventional wisdom about positivity and happiness. Manson advocates for embracing discomfort, accepting limitations, and prioritizing values to find meaning and fulfillment in life. Through candid anecdotes and blunt advice, he encourages readers to confront their fears, take responsibility for their choices, and focus on what truly matters. By emphasizing the importance of personal growth, resilience, and authenticity, Manson offers a refreshing perspective on self-improvement and empowers readers to let go of societal expectations and live a more genuine and fulfilling life.'),
('Steve Jobs', 'Biography', 2011, 'Walter Isaacson', 'Simon & Schuster', '
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson is a comprehensive biography of the iconic Apple co-founder. Isaacson provides an intimate look into Jobs' life, from his unconventional upbringing to his groundbreaking innovations in technology. The book explores Jobs' visionary leadership, creative genius, and uncompromising drive for perfection, as well as his complex personality and turbulent relationships. Through interviews with Jobs, his family, and colleagues, Isaacson reveals the highs and lows of Jobs' career, from the founding of Apple in his parents' garage to his triumphant return to the company and the creation of iconic products like the iPhone and iPad.'),
('Becoming', 'Biography', 2018, 'Michelle Obama', 'Crown Publishing Group', '
Becoming is the deeply personal memoir of former First Lady Michelle Obama. The book traces Michelle's life from her humble beginnings on the South Side of Chicago to her years in the White House. Through candid reflections, she shares the challenges she faced as a woman of color navigating the worlds of politics, education, and motherhood. Michelle provides insight into her marriage with Barack Obama, the demands of public life, and her efforts to champion causes such as education and health. Becoming is a testament to resilience, authenticity, and the power of embracing one's own voice and identity.'),
('Leonardo da Vinci', 'Biography', 2017, 'Walter Isaacson', 'Simon & Schuster', '
Leonardo da Vinci by Walter Isaacson is a comprehensive biography of the Renaissance polymath Leonardo da Vinci. Isaacson explores da Vinci's extraordinary life and contributions as a painter, sculptor, inventor, scientist, and thinker. The book delves into da Vinci's relentless curiosity, his insatiable quest for knowledge, and his groundbreaking achievements in various fields, from art to anatomy to engineering. Through meticulous research and vivid storytelling, Isaacson paints a portrait of a man ahead of his time, whose innovative ideas and artistic genius continue to inspire and captivate the world centuries later. Leonardo da Vinci is a fascinating exploration of one of history's greatest minds.'),
('Educated', 'Biography', 2018, 'Tara Westover', 'Random House', '"Educated is a memoir by Tara Westover recounting her remarkable journey from growing up in a strict, isolated household in rural Idaho to pursuing higher education against all odds. Raised by devout survivalist parents who distrusted institutions like schools and hospitals, Tara was denied a formal education for most of her childhood. Despite facing abuse and familial estrangement, she taught herself enough to gain admission to Brigham Young University. Through perseverance and determination, Tara overcame immense obstacles to earn a PhD from Cambridge University. Educated is a gripping tale of self-discovery, resilience, and the transformative power of education in shaping one's identity and future.'),
('Long Walk to Freedom', 'Biography', 1994, 'Nelson Mandela', 'Little Brown', '"Long Walk to Freedom is Nelson Mandela's autobiography, chronicling his extraordinary life journey from his childhood in rural South Africa to becoming the first democratically elected president of the country. Mandela recounts his experiences as a young lawyer fighting against apartheid, his leadership role in the African National Congress, and his 27-year imprisonment on Robben Island. Throughout the book, Mandela reflects on the challenges, sacrifices, and triumphs of the anti-apartheid movement, emphasizing the importance of reconciliation and forgiveness in building a new South Africa. Long Walk to Freedom is a testament to Mandela's resilience, vision, and unwavering commitment to justice and equality.'),
('Lonesome Dove', 'Western', 1985, 'Larry McMurtry', 'Simon & Schuster', '
Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurtry is an epic Western novel that follows the journey of retired Texas Rangers Augustus Gus McCrae and Woodrow F. Call. Set in the late 19th century, the story begins when the two friends decide to embark on a cattle drive from Texas to Montana, seeking adventure and fortune. Along the way, they encounter a diverse cast of characters, including outlaws, Native Americans, and fellow pioneers, facing dangers and hardships that test their courage and resolve. Through vivid storytelling and rich character development, McMurtry paints a sprawling portrait of the American frontier, capturing the essence of friendship, loyalty, and the pursuit of dreams in the untamed wilderness.'),
('True Grit', 'Western', 1968, 'Charles Portis', 'Simon & Schuster', '"True Grit by Charles Portis is a classic Western novel set in the American frontier during the late 19th century. The story is narrated by Mattie Ross, a determined and strong-willed teenager seeking justice for her father's murder. With unwavering determination, Mattie hires the grizzled and tough U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn to track down the culprit, a man named Tom Chaney, who has fled into Indian Territory. Joined by the Texas Ranger LaBoeuf, the unlikely trio sets out on a perilous journey across rugged terrain, encountering danger, betrayal, and unexpected camaraderie along the way. True Grit is a gripping tale of revenge, courage, and the indomitable spirit of the American West.'),
('The Sisters Brothers', 'Western', 2011, 'Patrick deWitt', '‎House of Anansi Press', 'The Sisters Brothers by Patrick deWitt is a darkly comedic Western novel that follows the exploits of Eli and Charlie Sisters, notorious assassins in the American West during the California Gold Rush. Commissioned by their boss, the brothers embark on a journey to kill a prospector named Hermann Kermit Warm, but their mission becomes increasingly complicated as they encounter a cast of eccentric characters and face unexpected challenges along the way. Through vivid storytelling and sharp wit, deWitt explores themes of brotherhood, greed, and the search for redemption, offering a unique and memorable take on the traditional Western genre.'),
('Citizen: An American Lyric', 'Poetry', 2014, 'Claudia Rankine', 'Graywolf Press', 'Citizen: An American Lyric by Claudia Rankine is a groundbreaking work that combines poetry, prose, and visual art to explore the experience of racism and microaggressions in contemporary America. Through a series of vignettes and reflections, Rankine invites readers to confront uncomfortable truths about systemic racism and the impact of racial bias on everyday life. The book delves into themes of identity, belonging, and social justice, offering a powerful indictment of racial inequality while also highlighting moments of resilience and resistance. With its evocative language and thought-provoking imagery, Citizen challenges readers to confront the reality of racial injustice and advocate for change.')
 ('The Princess Saves Herself in This One', 'Poetry', 2016, 'Amanda Lovelace', 'Andrews McMeel Publishing', 'The Princess Saves Herself in This One by Amanda Lovelace is a collection of poetry that explores themes of self-discovery, resilience, and empowerment. Lovelace's raw and unapologetic verses take readers on a journey through pain, healing, and self-love. Through personal anecdotes and powerful imagery, she challenges traditional fairy tale narratives and celebrates the strength and independence of women. The collection delves into topics such as trauma, mental health, and identity, offering a poignant reflection on the complexities of life and the importance of finding one's own voice and agency in a world filled with adversity.'),
('The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe', 'Children's books', '1950', 'C.S. Lewis', 'HarperCollins', 'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by C.S. Lewis follows four siblings—Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy—who discover the magical land of Narnia through a wardrobe. They embark on a quest to defeat the White Witch, who has plunged Narnia into eternal winter. Guided by the wise lion Aslan, they encounter fantastical creatures and face moral dilemmas as they strive to fulfill their destinies as kings and queens of Narnia. Through bravery, loyalty, and sacrifice, they ultimately triumph over evil and restore peace to the land, learning valuable lessons about courage, friendship, and the power of belief along the way.'), 
('Wonder', '2012', 'R.J. Palacio', 'Alfred A. Knopf', '
Wonder by R.J. Palacio tells the inspiring story of August Pullman, a young boy with facial differences, as he navigates his first year attending public school. Through multiple perspectives, including August's, his friends', and his sister's, the novel explores themes of acceptance, empathy, and the power of kindness. Despite facing bullying and prejudice, August's resilience and inner strength shine as he teaches his peers and community valuable lessons about compassion and seeing beyond appearances. With its heartfelt narrative and memorable characters, Wonder is a touching reminder of the beauty found in embracing our differences and choosing to be kind in a world often filled with cruelty.'),
('The One and Only Ivan', '2012', 'Katherine Applegate', 'HarperCollins', 'The One and Only Ivan by Katherine Applegate is a heartwarming tale narrated by Ivan, a silverback gorilla living in captivity at a roadside mall. Ivan spends his days painting and reminiscing about his past, but his world is transformed when Ruby, a baby elephant, arrives at the mall. Determined to save Ruby from a life of captivity, Ivan, with the help of his friends Stella the elephant and Bob the dog, embarks on a journey to find her a better home. Through Ivan's compassionate and introspective narration, the novel explores themes of friendship, empathy, and the power of hope. As Ivan learns to use his artistic talent to communicate with the outside world, he inspires those around him to embrace their own voices and advocate for change. The One and Only Ivan is a poignant story of resilience, love, and the importance of fighting for what is right.'
('Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!', '2003', 'Mo Willems', '	Hyperion Books for Children', 'Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus! by Mo Willems is a humorous and interactive picture book that follows a persistent pigeon as it pleads with the reader to let it drive a bus. Through witty dialogue and expressive illustrations, the pigeon tries various tactics, from bargaining to throwing tantrums, to convince the reader to hand over the keys. Young readers are encouraged to actively engage with the story by responding to the pigeon's pleas. With its simple yet engaging narrative and playful tone, Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!" delights children and adults alike, making it a beloved classic in children's literature.'), 
('Ada Twist, Scientist', '2016', 'Andrea Beaty', 'Abrams Books for Young Readers', 'Ada Twist, Scientist by Andrea Beaty, illustrated by David Roberts, follows the story of Ada Twist, a young girl with an insatiable curiosity and a passion for science. From an early age, Ada conducts experiments and asks questions to understand the world around her, much to the confusion of her parents and teachers. When her scientific pursuits lead to chaos and messes, Ada's family becomes exasperated, but they eventually come to appreciate her inquisitive nature. Through colorful illustrations and lyrical prose, the book celebrates curiosity, creativity, and the importance of pursuing one's interests. Ada Twist, Scientist inspires young readers to embrace their curiosity and pursue their dreams fearlessly.');